In addition to the safety issues of meeting strangers at their homes, it's logistically hard to get shared meals with neighbors to work, especially to get started without critical mass. Lunchclub is just about meeting people to talk - you pick the times you want to meet that week and that's all the information the end user needs to choose. For skill sharing, such as learn (grow) and teach (give), it is more complex. Unlike a conversation on Lunchclub where there's only ONE thing to meet to do (talk), learning something is effectively signing up for a class and each one will be different, notably in terms of equipment. Some things like yoga can often be done anywhere, but spin cycling or cooking require equipment, you can't just do them anywhere. The physical space matters and poses limitations. On top of that, group events are more complicated than one on one events, especially if there is a minimum (below which the teacher wouldn't want to invest the time to teach the class). If not enough people sign up, the class does not happen. This leads to complex scheduling issues. It needs to be simple and that requires forcing limitations. So, like any other class, it would be host (teacher) driven. Teachers would pick a time they can teach for the week and then learners can sign up. The teachers would have to commit to teaching no matter what, as long as at least one person signs up. If the class is full and more people want to sign up, they can open another one (next week) and build up to teaching more if they want. Shared meals would have the host starting as the cook (rather than the complexity of allowing a 3rd party chef - teachers are in charge of hosting, getting the necessary equipment, etc. and are the ones being paid, then can distribute to others as they want). As a first step, learners can fill out preferences - general times they're available and a priority list of what they want to learn. Teachers can then see how many people are available at given times and select a time that gets the most people. This would work for shared meals and for anything else, so is a single UI and backend solution for everything. The weekly tasks for users would be teachers choose a time for the classes they want to teach and then are notified if no one signs up (by a certain deadline), otherwise it happens. Learners sign up for specific classes (including shared meals) that week. To allow only having to log in and choose once per week, classes will default to recurring weekly and learners will default to having the classes they did last week pre-selected. That way people can both learn and teach and each week when they log in to confirm, they'll just be scanning and making adjustments, otherwise they can do a single "confirm" click to sign up to teach and learn the same classes as last week. There thus may be a single week lag for some new teachers to get their classes into the schedule, but after that, things will recur and be pre-populated, standing options of classes. Later on learners will be able to set preferences around learning new (different) classes each week and changes can be pre-selected for them to confirm each week. AI and algorithms can be leveraged to make this all happen better behind the scenes. This should keep it simple for the users - a one time weekly preference set up for both learning and teaching, then a single click "confirm" each week. Hosts (teachers) are in charge of equipment and location. For food there are dietary restrictions but those can be listed by the specific food / meal and the users can have preferences on their profile and thus be auto selected into meals that match their diets. This will require categorizing classes and setting preferences per each. It's more complex than Lunchclub, but it should be a solvable problem while keeping it simple for the users. Eventually having physical spaces (owning or partnering with apartment complexes and doing full on cohousing) is more ideal, but to start we need to leverage decentralized networks of individuals. Pushing the "gig economy" forward and empowering everyone to both learn and teach something, to fellow locals.

How is this different than going to your local yoga studio or gym? Or using something like ClassPass? By restricting it to by hyper local, these are your neighbors and the shared meals will be a suggested weekly activity to talk and get to know each other. There is an intentionality around building relationships. Learning yoga and new skills is great, but by itself doesn't necessarily build any lasting friendships. People's hobbies change over time so if you stop going to yoga you will stop seeing those other people who go to yoga. But we never stop eating so there's a recurring, easy, convenient way to both meet new people and continue to see people you've already met. That's the key. It's about meeting the whole person, not just a particular aspect of them such as a particular hobby they enjoy at that point in time. Two other things. First is the green aspect - discussions around and actions toward living more sustainably is always present. Just by going hyper local for food and activities already achieves part of this through reduced transportation emissions. Secondly, while dinners and classes will default to just 1 hour, we hope as people turn from strangers into friends, all the natural human interactions will start to play out - people discover shared interests and hobbies and set up game nights or watch parties for their favorite shows. Again due to the hyper local aspect, these aren't people you met at a networking event after work who lives 30+ minutes away who you may never see again. They're a short walk or bike ride away, so meeting them for an hour on a weeknight is very possible. The key question is: is it easy to see these people again on a weekly basis? Are they close and convenient enough that even on a weeknight we could see each other? We need to make the answer to that question be "yes". If we can, then we believe it will unlock a newfound sense of community that will lead to both happier people and a happier planet.

In the beginning to build the network of local people to meet with on a weekly basis we could just allow virtual, geographically distant connections until there are enough hyper local people to meet with in person. However, the whole point is in person connections so it's better to do this from the start so people get a sense for what it will actually be like. Secondly, that would leave it up to chance if and when a particular local area has enough people to meet in person. Instead, and in following with the grassroots movement idea, the early evangelists will build their own hyper local community, starting by simply hosting their friends for dinner once a week, then encouraging their friends to bring a new local friend or acquaintance next week. Long ago while reading about the importance of relationships I read a two part strategy for networking and making friends. The first was simply to try to say "yes" when invited to things. The second was to always have a weekly event you are either hosting or go to that you can invite someone you meet to and to suggest they bring a friend too. This does a few things. First, people need something actionable to further the relationship. Unless you meet someone in a recurring class or at work where you're guaranteed to see them again in a few days, it's likely you will not ever see this person again unless you exchange phone numbers and set up a time to meet. For dating this is how it works but there's a specific and clear intent and high motivations. It's not as clear or motivating to make new friends or to commit to making time to spend more time with a stranger you just met. But the reality is that you either invite the person to something now, or that may be the beginning and end of your interaction with them. Often that's okay - sharing a conversation with a stranger doesn't need to be any more than a pleasant interaction in your day. But if you want a longer lasting friendship, you need something to invite them too to see them again, and for friends, a group event is usually less scary and easier to say "yes" to, especially if it's a common interest or something the person will be doing anyway (such as eating a meal).

Having them bring a friend is important for two reasons. First, it makes it less scary and more safe for the other person. They just met you and while they may be willing to get to know you better, they haven't met your friends or other people in the group so if they can bring their own friend, they'll feel safer and worse case scenario they spend time with their friend. Secondly, it allows you, your friends and the other person's friend to meet each other and potentially form connections as well, thus growing the group. Basic networking - invite a friend and each time someone new joins, the network gets stronger for everyone.

This friends first approach also helps address some of the safety concerns around going to a stranger's house and eating a stranger's food. We trust our friends and if our friend has been before and can vouch for the person and their food, we're much more likely to feel safe and be comfortable going. This also happens all the time anyway - friends catch up and have lunch or dinner together all the time. The only difference here is there is an intention to grow a network of local people to do this together on a regular basis with. Again the network pays dividends here. If I want to have dinner with a friend or group of friends on Mondays but one or more friends are out of town, I have no one to eat with and eat alone that Monday. But if there's a network of locals, I can join another group that Monday (either another set of my friends or potentially meet some new people). No one ever has to eat alone (but they always may choose to if they want to).

So, to start, the first person in a local area thinks about a local friend or acquaintance they'd like to have dinner with. If they like to cook, great, they can host and just invite their friend to dinner, optionally inviting that friend to bring a friend too. If not, they can think about a local person who does like to cook and see if that person either wants to come and help cook or host themselves. Otherwise you can just start with ordering take out or going to a restaurant for food, until the network grows to include one or more people who enjoy cooking and want to host. To start, with your own friends, and with smaller groups, we often wouldn't want to charge our friends to come over and eat and that's completely natural and where the giving economy fits in well; no payment required. As the group grows and it recurs, the group can either switch who hosts and still not have any money switch hands (this is what I do with my friends now for game nights - we just rotate who brings food), or if the same person is hosting over and over they can start collecting some money, even if just enough to cover the cost of the groceries. Later on if people want fancier meals or to learn how to cook, semi professional cooks can cook for the group and charge based on the meal and their expertise. The core focus is not money, but to spend quality time with neighbors. Money is separate and used only as a way to make things sustainable - for the hosts to continue hosting and for people to make a living sharing their skills. In sum, the starting point is to invite a friend to dinner. Then do it again next week and have them bring a friend. One by one the network will grow and become self-sustaining, such that everyone will have the opportunity to share a meal, a laugh, and a conversation with a local. Maybe they'll even make a new friend.

None of this is novel. It's just recreating what we already do with family and friends. One of my favorite childhood memories was going to my Grandma's house every Sunday for dinner with my family and cousins. I didn't think much of it then, but I look back on it fondly and I miss it. I was lucky I lived close to my extended family; many people do not have that luxury. The highlight of my week now is usually the weekly board game or sports night with my brother and two local friends. The only thing I'd change is I'd like a few more sets of local friends to do a similar thing with on the other nights of the week. The frequency will vary by person - some want to be social most nights of the week while for others one night a week is plenty. Everyone can choose what feels good to them, we just want to create a local network to provide everyone the opportunity to share a meal with a neighbor whenever they want and to live a bit more sustainably in the process. This is simply a movement to get to know our neighbors again. Once we have that base, we can start having conversations with each other, getting to know each other, understand new perspectives, and start working together to make the world a better place, while hopefully sharing many laughs and fun times in the process.

Thought exercises:

- How often do you eat with a friend? Weekly? Monthly? How often would you like to?

- Who do you know within a 5 mile radius you either haven't seen in awhile or just would like to see on a semi regular basis? How about within walking or biking distance?

- How many nights a week do you cook? How many nights a week would you ideally like to cook? If you knew most of your neighbors and could rotate cooking responsbilities with them such that you only had to cook as often as you wanted, would you want to team up to cook and eat together? How often would you want to meet for a shared meal?

