Typically products and services are either free or have a set price. To use Green Community we could charge a monthly membership fee, have a freeium model, or charge a fixed price for events. The giving (gift) economy basically means there is no paywall or fixed price. One person or organization gives and the other chooses how much, if any, to give back (or to pay). A simpler word for it is a donation. I first encountered this in Berkeley at Yoga to the People - you could go to yoga and choose to pay as much or as little as you wanted. The suggested donation was $10. I really liked this idea. I think I almost always donated $10 and one could then ask - what is the difference from setting the price at $10 like any other "normal" business? The subtle difference lies in intent, psychology, and equality. The difference is choice. Rather than being told what to do "pay $10", I am told that the class I am attending has an approximate value of $10 and I may choose to pay what I like. Even if I always pay $10, now I have made a conscious choice to do so. If I feel a particular class was extra bad or good I could pay less or more, much like a tip for a waiter at a restaurant. It also opens up the class to everyone, regardless of how much, or how little money they may have. No one is turned away and wealthier people have the choice to pay more. This system puts the power in the hands of the people, and thus enables people being generous to pay more than the suggested amount, but also enables people to pay nothing or much less and take advantage of it.

The community and feeling of how the "suggested donation" is pushed can have a big effect too. A tight community who care about the class and want to keep it running both want to help the teachers make a living and understand it costs money to run the class and so if everyone pays very little, it will not be sustainable. This would lead into a tragedy of the commons scenario. Ultimately it comes down to the people, to open information, and if we believe people are good and will do what is right, then the gift economy will flourish and the yoga studio may earn far more than they could have setting a fixed price. Or even if that make roughly the same, there is likely a closer knit community and more friendly feeling among the students and teachers. I think of it like going to dinner or an event with a close friend. I care deeply about my friend and would never pay less than my share and I'd be happy to pay more than my share, because in doing so I am saving my friend money. And I care far more about my relationship than money. I think this is how most people operate - if they know the person, especially if they are a friend or family, they are often very generous. Happy to give and even desiring to make the other person happy. It is "risky" for a business to count on the genoristy of the public or of strangers. But I believe people are good and will do the right thing if given the opportunity. And I want to live in a generous world. Even as a "starving college student" I always paid my fair share, because it was the right thing to do. After I graduated and started making money, when I encountered some more donation based products and services I started to always give more than the suggested amount, as long as the product or service was mostly as advertised.

In college economics I learned about the Kuznets curve which is an upside down parabola with income on the bottom and environmental inequality on the side. It peaks and then with more income things actually get worse. Later in happiness readings, studies showed a similar curve - happiness peaks around income of $100,000 and then the more money you make the less happy you become. There are a variety of reasons but a key principle is that if people don't have enough money to cover basic needs like food and shelter, then more money leads to more happiness. But once people don't have to worry about basic needs, more money doesn't add more happiness, and in fact it tends to lead to more spending and comparing to people who have more, the "keeping up with the Jones" effect. Later on I learned about CEOs and leaders such as Costco who max out the top salary as a multiple of the lowest salary. Most recently the Patriot Act episode on billionaires explored how even though there are some like Bill Gates who are doing a great deal of good, on average the world would be better off if that money was more evenly distributed. So if we want to make the world a better place, a first step is to reduce income and wealth inequality. We can force that through raising taxes on the rich, but we can also give people a choice with something like a gift economy, where richer people can give more and those who have less can give less.

Choosing to be gift economy based may be no surprise - it fits in well with Teal and is how Frederic Laloux runs his books and videos. And the point is to be a community and a movement. We are in this together. For this to work we need a neighborly spirit. Friends helping friends - both through sharing their skills and knowledge and through paying (gifting) money to help their neighbor make a living and provide for themselves and their family. The happier and healthier the individuals are, the happier and stronger the community is and everyone benefits. A big part of this movement is opening up to and sharing perspectives. Reconnecting with the people around us. It feels better to help a friend than to do a job for them and get paid for it. Maybe in a future time we won't need to exchange money at all, but for now our economics run on it so a gift economy can be a step in the direction toward building good will, understanding each other, and helping one another thrive.

What does that mean for Green Community and how will we make money to stay sustainable and running? In short, everything will be donation based. There will be a suggested donation amount as well as a minimum and maximum. Revenue streams may change over time but we'll start with just the skillsharing events. The suggested donations are meant to help give people an idea of both how much the event may be worth as well as how much it costs to run it. The core idea is transparency, communication and shared understanding. Put yourself in the other person's shoes and try to make them happy and fulfilled. In the yoga to the people example, costs include rent and paying the teachers and if all classes were free or people donated too little, eventually the yoga studio would have to shut down as it could not cover its costs. For the maximum, while on one hand we could let people donate as much as they want, psychologically if there is no max, people aren't sure how much a good value is. Similar to the general tipping rule of 15% standard and 20% for great service. Event teachers (hosts) will keep 90% of donations and Green Community will take 10%, similar to platforms like AirBnB or Uber. Similar to Costco and other Teal companies, all salaries of all employees will be public and there will be a max ratio to keep all salaries relatively equitable. Profits will be shared and given back to both employees and the community.

The models may evolve over time, but some specifics for how things will likely start are as follows:
Rather than having traditional investors, anyone can donate money, similar to a Kickstarter, but ongoing. In general people can give of their time and of their money, and both have value, so profit sharing will go to both people who put in money and people who put in time (such as by going to events to keep the community growing and thriving). So the equity and voting rights split will likely be 1/3 based on money invested, 1/3 based on total hours using Green Community, 1/3 to Green Community employees. For employees, they'll likely set their own salaries, with suggested amounts based on their roles and cost of living (e.g. market rates) and the salary cap based on the lowest salary. After salaries and other costs are paid for, some percent (perhaps 25%) will be saved to cash flow and invest in growing the organization and the remainder will be split among the 3 groups listed above: investors, employees, and all Green Community users. The money set aside for the community will likely be in the form of investments and smaller kickstarters for grassroots projects community members have to further the vision and values of Green Community - greening and strengthening their own local community.

Skillshare events will likely have suggested amounts based on the skill level of the teacher ranging from free to $5 if taught by a beginner up to $50 by an expert. The minimum donation will likely be half of the suggested amount (e.g. $2.50 to $25) and the maximum set to double ($10 to $100). These will just be the defaults; individual teachers will set these per event and based on how much the skill costs to teach. For example we'll start with shared meals and so the minimum will likely be the cost of the groceries, and thus will vary a bit by meal. All events are small group events for a few reasons. Firstly, just as with a group fitness class, it makes a cheaper cost per person while still allowing the teacher to earn enough in total to make a living. We spread the cost (donation) among multiple people to make it as accessible to as many people as possible. At the same time, a big goal of Green Community is to provide sustainable local income for people, so the teachers can still make enough money from the group. For example the average cost to eat out ranges from $6 to $15. A host can cook a meal for 5 other people for $5 to $10 each and make $25 to $50 minus the cost of the groceries. Personal chefs can make fancier meals for $15 or more per person and make $50 per hour or more while still keeping it affordable for the individuals - the same or less than you would pay to eat anyway. And if you already cook for yourself, you can now host some others and make a little bit of extra cash or just cover the cost of your groceries. But people matter more than money - the main reason for group events is to meet and spend time with others. Groups of 5 to 10 are a good number as they are intimate enough to get to know each other and build meaningful relationships, which one of the main purposes of Green Community.

Links:

[Yoga to the People](https://yogatothepeople.com/)

[Patriot Act Billionaires](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patriot_Act_with_Hasan_Minhaj#Volume_5_(2019))

[Frederic Laloux Gift Economy](https://thejourney.reinventingorganizations.com/in-the-gift.html)

[Transparent Salaries Example](https://corporate-rebels.com/salary-transparency-einhorn/)

[Eating Out Cost](https://www.moneycrashers.com/eating-out-restaurants-cost/)

Thought Exercises:

- What have you donated to in the past? How did it make you feel to donate as compared to having a set price? Do you usually donate more than you think you would have paid if it were a set price, or less?

- How would you feel if you were given the option to set your own salary for work? Do you think you would pay yourself more, less or the same as you make now? Do you think your fellow employees would be more likely to "cheat the system" and take more, the same, or less than they "deserve"?

- How much more do you think the highest paid employee should be able to make compared to the lowest paid employee?

- How much do you think you would donate to join a weekly shared meal and why? $5? $10? $15? Less? More? If you were teaching a skill or cooking a meal, how much would people have to donate for you to feel good about it?
