My love for the environment started as a kid camping many times a summer with my family. In high school for cross country I enjoyed running through parks but simultaneously became aware of all ways humans were exploiting mother nature. I was torn between science (make a better hybrid car) and policy and behavior change (get people to drive less) and ended up double majoring in Chemistry and Environmental Economics and Policy. My dream idea at the time was to combine my passions for fitness and the environment by creating a Green Gym where all the workout machines would generate energy and power a carbon neutral building. Inspired by Yoga to the People in Berkeley that was donation based and passionate about community, I had crazy ideas about making it donation based membership. My favorite class in college was Organizational Behavior and leadership lessons such as "make yourself obsolete" sparked more crazy ideas such as every employee working every job at least one, so even the CEO would scrub toilets at least once a year. For good or bad, I was never really interested in being part of a "normal" company or of fitting in.

I didn't have the money or experience to open a gym, so being young, naive and idealistic, I decided I'd just build a high tech software startup, make a million dollars, get some experience, then open the gym. Nearly 15 years later, I was still working in software and hadn't worked on climate change. I'd tried and failed with many different startups and ideas and over the years my Green Gym idea evolved to a Happy (Green) Home. Fitness continued to be a passion of mine but community and relationships started to matter more and more to me, both personally and as a means to help the environment. While gyms are great, we spend the majority of our working time at work or at home. And while I loved living with friends in and right after college, as people moved for jobs I found myself missing those interactions so personally I wanted to rebuild a local community. On a more global level, a quote from the CEO of Spartan Race in a podcast stuck with me - many people in third world countries face a daily decision whether they burn part of their roof to cook or keep it for shelter through the night. It may not be this extreme, but Maslow's Hierachy of Needs and the airplane safety tip to put on your own mask first have always resonated with me. If we want to get people to care about the environment, we need to first meet their basic needs and we need to create situations where it is easy to do good and hard to do wrong. Happiness, or lack of it, is a root cause of many of our behaviors and many global issues are interconnected. The United Nations ranks education for girls as one of the top things we can do to address climate change, because of the positive ripple effects education has.

A third reason for my shift from a Green Gym to a Green Home was that I've always liked the idea of unit sustainability. While top down policy change such as government regulations can often have far bigger impact, grassroots bottom up appeals to me more. As a kid the idea that "if everyone turns off lights they aren't using.." was motivating to me. I can't control other people, government policies or how corporations operate, but I can try to be the best version of myself and reduce my carbon footprint. Green myself and green my home, and if everyone does that, we can star to green the world.

These ideas percolated and evolved in my brain for about a decade. As a software engineer striving to stay on top of emerging technologies I learned basic machine learning on the side. When I discovered Effective Altruism and read some of their AI posts it was the first time I felt that something could be a bigger world risk than climate change so I looked for ways to combine both and use AI to combat climate change. Drone tree planting and robotic hydoponic farming seemed great but the community, happiness, and local pieces were missing for me. Everything is connected and I think we need more than just science to save our world, we need human behavior change. We need a movement. Luckily many movements are already starting and people like Greta Thurnberg inspire me. Yet I didn't know how to get started so I still did not act. Then the worst fires in California history happened in 2020 and it became personal - I could no longer go outside and enjoy nature, I was trapped inside. On top of that was the COVID pandemic and my loneliness increased, reducing me to seeing only about 10 people in person the entire year. Scientists have said this decade will be our defining decade in the fight against climate change. We can't afford to wait any longer and I couldn't continue to just dream about the green community I want to live in. I loved using Lunchclub and through many meetings I shared my vision and people motivated me to act upon it. And thus Green Community was born.

Thought Exercises:

- What is a dream you have but have not acted on? What obstacles are in your way, either actual or perceived?

- If you were designing a Green City, what would it look like? How about a Green city block? What would be the key innovations and differences that would make it carbon neutral? What key changes would make it feel like a strong community with close relationships and friendships so neighbors aren't simply strangers we pass by?
