I think there's a big difference between living with people and living even just next door or within walking distance from them, and again a big difference from living a block or two away and a mile or more away. As I kid my best friend lived right across the street and most of my friends lived either on the same street or the next street over. My default fun was to go across the street and knock on my best friend's door. Most of the time he would be home but when he wasn't, it wasn't a big a deal. I can't think of the last time I just spontaneously asked a friend to hang out right now. While I'm a planner and don't mind planning in advance, the thought of pulling out my phone and calling a friend feels odd, so I just do something by myself and I think this is why many people browse social media, the Internet or watch Netflix. It's always right there and available, there's no chance of rejection and no effort; it's hyper convenient. Partly because of this, we no longer get bored often in the first place so don't feel we "need" friends in real life in the first place - there's near endless content online to consume. In college living in dorms with roommates, common areas and lots of people was a similar experience - someone was always available, no phone call or planning required. I remember being shocked after graduating college when I realized that just by moving one mile away from a close friend who I used to live with, we went from seeing each other nearly every day to less than 10 times that year. Later it was equally shocking that friends who lived in the same city or one city over I didn't see until a mutual friend flew in from out of town and a group us gathered to see them, and finally, each other. I also think about Sunday dinners at my Grandma's and the effect that family plays and I miss those now. In many ways I just want everyone to have a local version of family.

I also need to be aware of how busy people are, especially as parents, which I am not yet. And I know when I do have kids I'll want to spend the vast majority of my time with my partner and with my kids. But these do not have to be mutually exclusive to having local friends and in fact the idea that "it takes a village" can help here. Shared meals, people to watch the kids so we can have spouse date night or guys / girls night away from the kids I think is important for parents and people in general. Similarly with watching pets so pet owners can easily go on vacation or even go to work and know their pet will be played with and having fun rather than locked up at home alone. It extends to services too - tutoring for kids, work help and skill building for adults, help around the house and more. Currently American society is very focused on the nuclear family and we put very high expectations on our spouse. They have to be a great parent, lover and best friend. They are our ONE person to fill all these roles. But with a strong local community we can distribute those varying needs to different people. And we can get help in taking care of many of life's daily chores that keep us busy. Rotating cooking shared meals such that instead of having to cook all the time, you can cook once a week and have others cook for you the other nights. Kids for your kids to play with, hyper local tutoring, paint night and other classes and fun activities for adults, with local day care and activities for the kids while the parents are nurturing themselves and taking a break from parenting.

We can't just add in more to our existing busy lives. We need to change the paradigm. Ask a busy parent if they want to spend time and effort meeting stranger for dinner and they'll probably quickly say no or even laugh at you. "Who will take care of the kids while we're gone or who will watch them while we're there? I'm too busy as it is, I need less in my life, not more. I just want some time alone to decompress." These are all valid. Even if people may say they value relationships, if people are overwhelmed, stressed and busy, they won't want to make time to try to add something else in. So the first step is to take away some of that stress and being so busy. Find a win-win that fills people up emotionally and adds laughter and relaxation into their lives without making them sacrifice daily chores and duties. In business terms it's economies of scale. It doesn't take much more time to cook for 5 or 10 people as compared to cooking for one or for a single family. And the kids can even get involved too. Ten years ago while watching the Happy documentary the cohousing in Denmark really stood out to me. They'd have shared meals and some of them would be nearly all cooked by the children! The adults got to have free time or socialize with each other and then be served food. People are both our greatest resource and one of our sources of greatest happiness. If we work together, communicate what we want and need, we can find new ways (or perhaps revert back to old ways humans used to live) to thrive together. Having a weekly shared meal or doing activities with local neighbors doesn't have to be taking away free time, it actually could be giving more free time back to people than they currently have, by working together and sharing responsibilities as a group. There are already numerous companies taking advantage of how busy we are and solving this problem with services. Pet care, day care, you order nearly anything from Amazon and can largely subsist without talking to another human at all or even leaving your house. That's one way to approach it. But in addition to the environmental impact of shipping goods from around the globe, removing humans from the equation and making things more efficient doesn't necessarily make us more happy; biologically we're wired as social creatures and there's a reason the worst form of punishment is solitary confinement. Let's choose to bring back local people in our lives, both for our own happiness and to help the planet. With technology a village is no longer required to raise a kid or survive, but to thrive, I think we need to bring back some pieces of it. Depending on others doesn't have to be a bad thing. It feels good to help others, and asking for help builds a human connection, and that can be a great thing.

Thought exercises:

- When was the last time you depended on a friend or asked for help?

- When was the last time someone asked you for help? How did it make you feel to help them?

- When was the last time you felt bored? What did you do?
