
I recently read the book Together and it reaffirmed how big of a problem loneliness is. According to the book, chronic loneliness and weak social ties are on the rise, and they're contributing to poor health on an epidemic scale. In fact, loneliness is associated with shortened lifespans similar to those associated with smoking 15 cigarettes per day! I knew it was bad, but I did not know it was that bad! Some other sombering statistics: 22 percent of American adults report being socially isolated, 25% in Australia and over 1 million people in Japan meet the official definition of hikikomori, or social recluses.

What is loneliness? Loneliness isn't just being alone, it's the sense that you're lacking the connections you need. There are 3 types: intimate loneliness is longing for a partner with whom you share a deep bond, social loneliness is the need for quality friendships and collective loneliness is the yearning for a community of like-minded people. We need all three types of connection to thrive, and if you lack one or more it can be detrimental to your health.

For our ancient ancestors, being connected was essential - watching for predators with fellow tribe members reduced risk and hunting and pooling resources together meant a better chance of survival. Our bodies evolved to realize this and so when we are isolated our nervous systems go on high alert and release stress hormones so even though in modern times being alone may be safe, our bodies still behave as if we're alone, including sleeping more lightly to stay alert for incoming predators. Loneliness is similar to thirst or hunger - a sign that something is wrong. But paradoxically while when we are hungry we look for food, when we are lonely instead of looking for connection, we often shy away from it and reclude even deeper. This vicious cycle is very difficult to break.

I had the pleasure of speaking to Emre who has worked in the San Francisco Bay Area but now is in Ethiopia founding Africa to Silicon Valley that helps educate and train people there to land tech jobs to lift them out of poverty. I loved his optimistic attitude and his desire to help make the world a better place. As we were talking I asked him what some differences were between living in California and living in Ethiopia and he pointed out that in Ethiopia, even in the capitol, eletricity and Internet, which we mostly take for granted in the United State, can be scarce. But he pointed out that because some of these basics are missing, people NEED each other to survive, much like the book Together talks about our ancient ancestors. And Emre pointed out that while living in California he did not know his neighbors, in Ethiopia, everyone knows their neighbors because they need each other to address basic human needs. With less resources, they can not live individually and MUST depend on each other. This forces community and human interaction. We need both physical sustenance and emotional sustencance to thrive; so while first world countries often have plenty of physical basic needs, third world countries often are much richer in terms of emotional basic needs. In reflecting on my own mindset and how I was raised, I feel self sufficiency and not "needing" others was generally something to be proud of, yet I can see how if we never need anyone else, it can lead to a very lonely existence and maybe "needing" others is actually a good thing.

I often think about growing up going to school. 5 days a week every kid my age within a 5 mile radius was in school learning and playing together. I didn't think about extroverts or introverts or personality types then - everyone HAD to go to school and was there. Teachers actively would work to involve everyone and help shy kids feel more at ease. Mandatory group projects required people to work together. We saw the same people 5 days a week for most of the year so got to know all our classmates so it became relatively easy to talk to everyone. We became friends, or at least acquaintances "by accident", not because we chose to. Loneliness was difficult to come by. Fast forward to adult life, especially now during a pandemic where social interaction is restricted, and I spend 90% of my time alone. Even before the pandemic the only people I regularly saw were my coworkers and in a work environment you're not necessarily forming deep personal relationships that cover any of the 3 types of loneliness. Maybe collective loneliness to an extent, but not like in school where recess, physical education, after school sports and everyone living hyper-locally meant we played together after school. There was a balance of work and play that I believe is crucial to forming strong relationships. Modern day adults are mostly workaholics working 8 or more hours a day with often an hour or more of commute, which is a total of over 9 hours a day dedicated to work, and during almost all the daylight hours. Comparatively, school went about 6 hours and commutes were less than 15 minutes. Every day there was at least a few hours of daylight to play with friends after school.

A Harvard study started in 1938 that is still going tracked the lives of 268 students has found that close inner-circle friendships are a stronger predictor of hpappiness and health than either wealth or social class. There are numerous other studies that point to the fact that relationships matter more than anything else in life. Yet we are moving further and further away from them. Technology is not helping - ordering grocery delivery is more efficient and convenient but cuts out human interaction at the grocery store. That may seem a worthwhile trade to make, but if we don't fill that human connection gap with other face to face human interactions, our happiness and health suffers.

I've seen this in my own life. I often will tell people the story of cohousing in college. I never intended to join a fraternity but I found a values based one that I ended up loving and moved into a house of 15 other guys. Based on frat stereotypes I was very skeptical of this decision but it ended up being one of the best decisions I made in college. I ended up living with some of my fraternity brothers after college as well. Now I live with just my brother and while it's a good situation and I'm not necessarily lonely, I can definitively say that I laughed more and was happier when I lived with more people. Yes, people can mean less privacy and dirty dishes in the sink sometimes and some have had terrible roommate experiences and never want to live with someone again. That's okay, each person can choose what feels best to them and I'm not proposing we all live together. But I firmly believe that regular (daily, if not at least weekly) human, in person, interaction is not just great for us, but necessary if we want to be happy and healthy. And the only way to see people in person on a daily basis is if they live very close to us (e.g. our neighbors). The form and frequency can vary by each person's preferences - I may want to hang out with my neighbors 5 days a week while others think once a week is plenty. But I think it is fundamentally human that all of us need some regular face to face contact. It's time to reverse the trend and start putting an end to loneliness, one neighbor at a time.

Links:

[Together by Dr. Vivek Murthy](https://www.vivekmurthy.com/together-book)

Thought Exercises:

- How would you rate your current loneliness across each type: intimate, social, and collective? What is one step you can take to add more human connection into your life?

- When was the last time someone needed something from you? How did it feel to be needed? Good? Bad? Annoying?

- When was the last time you needed something from someone else? How did it make you feel to ask for and receive help? What is something you could ask for help with in the future, even if you could do it alone without any help?

- Do you have roommate horror stories and would you ever live with a roommate again? If you could design your perfect living situation that included human connection to address all 3 forms of loneliness, what would it look like? How would the physical spaces be constructed, what would be common or shared (if anything), and what types and frequency of events would there be to facilitate regular human interaction?
