When I started my entrepreneur journey in Founder Institute one pitch tip was to describe your idea with a simile - what existing well known business is it like? You succinctly capture shared knowledge of the popular business and then add the difference of your idea on top. In discussing Green Community with people I've seen similarities to many businesses and as the idea is to create an evolving movement, there will be many ideas and organizations pieces of it are similar to. So this will be the first of many posts that focus on an aspect of what Green Community is.

I've really enjoyed using Lunchclub this past year and I've had many wonderful conversations with some amazing people. A common opening to my Lunchclub meetings has been sharing why we each joined Lunchclub, what we're looking to get out of it, and how the experience has been for us so far. My response is generally that I love it but the one thing I've struggled with is maintaining the connections and transforming them into more than just a one off meeting. While a network of weak connections and acquaintances can be great for your career, I'd love to build at least some of those into friendships.

On one hand there's just not enough time in the day to maintain more than a handful of relationships. If you meet just one new person each week then in 7 weeks you already have 7 new people to stay in touch with. Forming a deep connection takes time so even with just a one hour call, that's already an hour a day just to keep up with those first 7 people. That assumes there was a really strong connection with each of those 7 people and you actually want to be close friends with them all, which obviously isn't often going to be the case. We all have our preferences and circles of relationships with a select few who are best friends who we enjoy spending a lot of time with and others we're happy to see a few times a month or a year. Even so, the vast majority of my conversations on Lunchclub were fantastic and I'd like many of them to be more than just an acquaintance. Yet I only had two second calls.

This got me thinking about community and relationships, something I've been thinking about over a decade now. Through discussions over the years, a common theme has been that making friends as an adult is hard. And this past year I read that our closest friends aren't those who we have the most in common with, but the people we see most often - it's about frequency. In looking at my life, this feels true. One of the things I look forward to most each week is playing sports and board games with my brother and two local friends. We all live within 5 minutes of each other. I have other friends who live within 30 minutes or an hour and many I see monthly, but with work schedules and traffic, more than 15 minutes or so away and it seems to be limited to weekends only.

So like it or not, maybe hyper local is the key. And conveniently, from an environmental standpoint, hyper local is great too. I learned about the X mile diet that was focused on eating locally and how often our food is shipped thousands or hundreds of miles to us but that if we can shrink that to 100 miles or less, it can have a big positive impact on the environment. Lunchclub already gives the option to match locally, but it is still a 50 mile or so radius. And Lunchclub is career focused; it's about meeting professionals. Which is great. But while work is an important aspect of our lives, what about our time outside of work? Our personal relationships? So one way to describe Green Community is that it's like Lunchclub, but for your neighbors. A hyper local, personal or professional way to connect with people. And because it is hyper local, hopefully it leads to far more follow up meetings and maybe even building some friendships. I think a key question is "Can I easily meet face to face with this person on an average week night?" If the answer is yes I think there's a much higher chance of being able to build a deeper relationship.

Links:

[Lunchclub](https://lunchclub.com/)

Thought Exercises:

- Who do you see on weekly basis? How about on a daily basis?

- How many of your neighbors do you know? How many friends live within 15 minutes? 5 minutes?

- If you had an evening each week to spend with friends, what would you want to do? Eat together? Talk? Play a game or other activity? Learn something new? Something else?
