I discovered two awesome climate Slack communities in the past month, Work on Climate and Earthshot, and through it have met some great people and seen some great talks, one of which was on biophilic cities by Dror of Super Nature Labs. It really resonated with me and in many ways reaffirmed the vision I've felt I've had and wanted for a decade. Dror and his company have spent years looking into the built environment and how it will double in the next 30 years and how crucial it is for both humans and our Earth. I was excited to see that human connection was one of the core values and was inspired by Dror saying we need to move beyond sustainability and to ecological harmony for all communities. By that he meant not just communities of humans, but all species. This, and his various concepts and designed seemed like the utopia I have dreamed of. One crucial decision point Dror has had to make though is whether to focus their efforts on buliding new cities or on updating existing ones. Obviously it is easier to start from a black canvas and so while we learn how to best design cities, Dror and his company are focusing on new cities. I'm very excited for what they will build in the future and I'd love to help in any way I can. But I also don't want to wait 5, 10 or 20 years for this to happen, or at least part of it. I've thought about trying to buy a plot of land, recruit a group of people and try to build our own green utopia. But it requires uprooting myself and everyone from their current lives and locations, which they probably picked for a reason, and it does not scale. We need to bring the green movement and the community back into our existing cities and meet people where they are now. We need both approaches. So while Dror and others work on building the cities of the future, the question I keep asking is what we can do right NOW to start making our existing cities greener and more connected?

The magic of compounding is often taught in (personal) finance - invest $1000 now and in 30 years it can become $20,000. This magic applies to other aspects of life too, such as building habbits or learning new skills. An often cited piece of advice if you want to learn something new is to start ridiculuously small - just spend 5 minutes a day on it every day. Over time that adds up, and then psychology helps add more motivation as you see your progress, and you often will naturally spend more than 5 minutes on it as you start to become invested in it and enjoy spending time on it. A year later you may be surprised how far you came. This "1% better" idea is very powerful and in many ways is the foundational idea behind Green Community. As an individual our lifestyle changes to be more green may be insignificant compared to a single big company like Amazon. But thousands or millions of people all making change can create a wave that can make a big impact. Similarly, "going green" can seem daunting - where to start, how much better can I be, will it matter? And sometimes things feel outside our control - for example my apartment does not have green bins so composting is very difficult. But if we grouped up together we could either figure out another solution or create enough pressure to get green bins. Maybe one reason they do not have them is they are worried they will not be filled up, but together as a group we could commit to composting and separating our green waste. So 1% applies in many ways - grouping up to magnify actions and compounding over time. People can also inspire us. I recently had a Lunchclub conversation with a person named Moy who bikes 5 miles to pick up his daughter from school, puts her in a buggy attached to his bike and bikes home. He takes all his food scraps, freezes them, then blends them and pours them into a small garden he grows so he does not need to buy fertilizer. I already try to live as green as I can but he really inspired me. We are all at different levels in our journey. Maybe 1% means using less napkins or paper towels, or switching some appliances to power strips and turning them off when not in use. There are many guides on small things we can each do and many only take a few minutes or a small conscious effort to choose to purchase a greener product or reuse something. If we each made just a 1% change each week, at the end of the year we'd have taken 50 actions to live more green. Even just a small community of people all doing that would make a noticeable impact. This is where I think the power of in person people comes into play. There are plenty of websites and apps to help people measure and reduce their carbon footprint and some even have challenges to compete with people to be more green. Those are great, but I think the personal touch and inspiration from human connection and hearing the story of how someone made a step to be more green motivates me so much more. We're fundamentally human and if we work together we can make big change, 1% at a time.

And that 1% better isn't limited to just being more green either - the community and human happiness is just as important - 1% better can mean 1% more connected, happier, healthier - each of us working together toward our personal goals. Another inspiring Lunchclub talk I had was with Shyam and shared this motivational video with me about how strongly our environment shapes us. He cited that we are the product of the 5 people we surround ourself with and the video goes on to say "your willpower is weak compared to situations" - or more simply, if we shape our environment, it will in turn shape us. I like to think I have strong willpower but I also often say health decisions are made at the grocery store - whatever I buy I will eat. I tend to eat very healthy, but if people bring over junk food to my house or we host a party and have it left over, I realize how much junk food I'll eat that week. I noticed the same thing as I was starting to exercise for the first time - if I set a time to meet with a friend to workout, I'd show up because I wasn't going to stand up my friend. But if it was just me, sometimes I would skip. Accountability buddies are power. Our networks of people are powerful shapers of us, whether we realize it or not. But knowing that, we can create environments and people who make it easier for us to achieve our goals and that much easier to be 1% better, for ourselves and for the earth.


Links:

[Super Nature Labs](https://www.supernaturelabs.com/)

[Change your Environment, Change your Life](https://youtu.be/KNygh6jY0h0?t=758)

Thought Exercises:

- If you were able to create your own green city from scratch, what would you envison? What would be the most important pieces that would make you happy to live there and make it good for nature too? What is one small change you can make to your existing living space or community take a step toward that vision?

- What is one way you could be 1% greener? What is one goal you'd like to achieve and what is one small step you can take in the next 24 hours to move closer to that goal?

- When is a time your willpower "failed" you? What is one way you could change your environment or add an accountability person to help you succeed next time?
