I had a video call with a college friend of mine who I haven't spoken to in 6 months. It was great to see him and catch up and we had some fun and wacky conversations around space travel and teleportation. He gave me some good feedback on the idea of shared meals with locals, including that from a safety standpoint he's unsure about going to the house of a stranger or of eating food prepared by a stranger. They're valid points and I've been thinking about how to address them or change the model to remove these safety concerns. Not to mention with COVID meeting in person isn't really possible anyway for another 3 to 6 months. Skillsharing (e.g. yoga in the park) was going to come later (I wanted to focus on just food first) but maybe we switch the order since yoga is contactless and you can meet in a neutral public place and there's no food involved. It's simple logistic and safety wise and with masks could even be started now during COVID. But half of the point of green community is to build relationships and that requires talking and getting to know each other. Shared experiences like yoga and classes not only can already be done at local yoga studios but you can easily attend a class with people but barely say a word to anyone. I took local yoga classes for a couple months a year ago and while I chatted with some people and it was a positive experience, I'm no longer in touch with any of them and didn't build any relationships outside of the classes.

The second half is the green part and food is a big piece of the climate change puzzle - by eating local home cooked meals you can reduce or even eliminate transportation emissions and packaging. Food is also something we all need daily so it applies to everyone, whereas yoga and other classes only some people are interested in. To create a movement we need to affect the masses. We spend money on food daily and if we can source and consume our food in a local and sustainable manner, it can add up to a big positive change. Starting yoga at the park doesn't really have any big positive environmental effect. Similarly, I thought about sticking with food and having the food catered or from a restaurant to address the food safety concerns, but that's the same as takeout and comes with the packaging waste. For the other safety concern of going to a stranger's house, meeting in a public park during daylight hours could work but again without a dishwasher and sink for dishes, it's a big pain to bring reusable dishes, not to mention dinner is likely the most common and easy to share meal and it's often dark outside during dinner.

Back to the important stuff: teleporation. It came up because we talked about who we had kept in touch with among our shared college friends and admitted we both had been pretty terrible about keeping in touch. We also agreed that while video is much better than phone calls, neither comes close to in person. As much as I value relationships more than anything else and it's great catching up, I'm just not motivated to have an hour long phone call every night, or even a couple times a week. And if you don't stay in touch frequently, you end up often having "catch up calls" where you just summarize your life for the past few months and don't really get to meaningful conversation. All the spontaneous fun moments and laughs that built the relationship in the first place are missing. I get more out of a single day in person with a friend than tens of calls in a year. And it feels effortless and fun, not like work to schedule and have a call. This is how we ended up talking about teleportation - we agreed that without teleportation, the only solution we could think of was to have a yearly group travel trip to see each other and our friends. In between maybe we have a few phone or video calls or emails, but that in person trip is what really matters. So until mind bending virtual reality or teleportation comes along, that limits us to physically close people.

There are several other smaller challenges with remote connections as well. Many of us spend 8 hours or more a day sedentary and staring at a screen already so adding more hours on top isn't good for our eyes or our health. Environmentally running devices costs energy and while it's better than driving to commute to someone in person, nothing beats a bicycle ride or walk to meet a local friend or neighbor face to face. I think remote is great for initial conversations and getting to know people. To establish trust, safety and comfort. But to nurture a meaningful relationship I haven't yet found a way to do it completely remote - either maintaining existing friendships I built in person nor making new friends. I think there needs to be a path to regular in person interactions for it to be sustainable. So as difficult as it may be with the safety challenges of meeting at someone's house and eating food prepared by others, I think in person is the key. Let's leverage technology for the initial meeting and trust building to then enable the deeper and higher quality connections with people in person.

The final question, especially if in person is a must have and poses the initiaul safety hurdles, is how motivated people are to meet locals in person in the first place and if the motivation is enough to overcome these hurdles. On one hand clearly the motivation isn't super high otherwise something like this would already exist and most people would know their neighbors and have many local friends. I've also thought a lot about extroverted vs introverted people and asked my friend how much alone time he prefers and if making new local friends is important to him. He shared that one of the hardest times of his life was being alone in a new city for a year after college when he moved for a job. He went from having lots of friends to only really having coworkers and that's not quite the same as deep personal friendships. I asked what he learned and would do about that now and he replied that he deliberately moved back to a place he had an existing friend group and now he sees them a couple times a week. And for him as an introvert, that's probably enough so he doesn't have a high motivation to meet new people.

If he did, he said he would probably try to find people at common interest events - bars, motorcyles and music for him personally. That works to some extent and I've tried it myself too. Many Meetup groups had low turnouts and the few I found that had strong regular groups I realized there was a distinction between "activity buddies" and "friends". With existing friends I love doing activities, but when I was meeting new people at activity events, even if they were weekly so I'd see similar people over and over, I still never felt any of them were friends. Until or unless we spent time outside of those group events and built a deeper connection. Weekly frequency is a key part of it, but the missing pieces for me are deep conversation and shared experiences. Getting back to phone call catch ups with my friends, the big shift in our relationship from when we lived together or very close to each other and saw each other at least once a week in person, if not more, to now, is that now our talks are at a month or weekly level. We share highlights for the past few months of our lives. Before, the day to day was relevant - challenges at work, sharing funny videos, daily goals and all the little life moments. Zooming out and giving a recap glosses over those; they don't feel big enough to share. So you give a summary. And summaries are great for loose connections, business contacts and transactional relationships. But meaningful relationships require depth, and depth requires time.

I know half or less of people are extroverts and that extrovert and introvert are just labels and it is really a spectrum. Some people want to see people every day, some think once a week is plenty. But I believe that a feeling of community and of belonging is fundamentally human, and I believe that requires some time in person. As an adult coworkers are often the only people we see face to face on a regular basis. But especially as more and more jobs go remote that will shift too. If face to face matters and we work from home, the people we live and our neighbors with will have to fill that void. In Eric Barker's parenting blog post he cited a study saying "the amount of time children spent eating meals at home was the single biggest predictor of better academic achievement and fewer behavioral problems. Mealtime was more influential than time spent in school, studying, attending religious services, or playing sports." The study was focused on children but I don't think adults are immune to loneliness; I think the phenomenon is fundamentally human. I think the next sentence is just as illuminating: "Survey 50 parents and 59 of them are going to agree that this is a good idea — but often we don’t do it." This to me is the core problem. Most people know relationships are incredibly important and more and more studies show social media and loose connections make us feel more lonely rather than happier. Yet more and more we spend time alone. We must make it easy for people to spend quality time together in person, on a weekly, if not a daily basis. So it makes sense to pair social interaction with something we all do every day anyway, such as eating.

Links:

[Eric Barker Parenting](https://www.bakadesuyo.com/2021/01/parent/)

Thought Exercises:

- What activities or rituals do you do on a daily basis? How about weekly? Which of those, if any, would you prefer to do with one or more friends if you could?

- How many of your neighbors do you know? How many would you like to know?

- How many times a week would you want to have a shared meal (or activity) with friends? How about with locals you didn't know yet?

- What would have to happen for you to feel safe going to someone's house to eat food with them and a group of people? Having a mutual friend who knew the host in the group? Meeting on a video call first? Meeting in person at a public place first?

