My favorite course in college was organizational behavior the highlight of my college career happened outside the classroom as vice president and president of my college club. I loved leadership and the challenges it presented in running an organization, working with people and human psychology and it started my personal growth phrase of reading lots of books like Good to Great and trying to incorporate their best practices. I thought I wanted to go into business, be a manager and climb up the ladder to the top leadership levels like these great leaders I was reading about. But I've always been a doer and when I asked my executive board for feedback at the end of my term as president I recieved pretty harsh reviews. I had high standards and had done many things myself rather than delegating, teaching and creating a sense of ownership among the board and the organization. I had been a much better vice president and committee chair than I had been a president. I journaled and reflected on lessons learned and thought I just needed to do better next time, but that being a manager and leader was still what I wanted.

After college I cofounded a tech startup and as I continued voraciously reading, an article from Paul Graham of Y-Combinator about makers vs managers stood out to me. Y-Combinator showed the merit of technical cofounders focused on demo day, explicitly saying "no" to networking - near 100% in maker mode. I enjoyed coding and in the early days of a startup with a small team there are no managers - everyone is a maker focused on building the product and team members wear multiple hats. I enjoyed this variety in work, the ability of the team to pivot and move quickly and the famed "startup culture" of close knit relationships and high quality work. So my mindset started to shift - I didn't know if I wanted to manage, or at the very least I didn't want to stop being a maker too. The challenge was that as companies grow there's a complaint of losing this startup culture. During one of many long talks with friends about this, a friend told me she was "just a 1-3 year person," meaning after about 3 years the company grew too big and the culture would fade out, so she would move on to a new startup. I understood why she said this, but I really liked Jim Collins' study of enduring greatness over 15 years and I wanted to build something and see it through to the end, not leave it. But I didn't have many examples of the initial culture sustaining throughout the first few years.

Then I discovered Frederic Laloux's Reinventing Organizations book that spoke of a different way to run organizations that used self-management. He used colors to code differnt organizational structures and "teal" was the color given to these self-managing companies. Most importantly, he provided examples of companies that were both large in size (some in the thousands or tens of thousands of employees) and which had endured for over 10 years. I had never thought of having an organization without managers and hierachy at all. But the book deeply resonated with me and it felt like what I had been searching for. I felt so strongly that I went on a "Teal or bust" campaign - the next job I'd take would be at a Teal company, either one I founded or joined. Ideally I'd join one (lots of startups failures had humbled me). So the first step was to find one. It turns out they are incredibly rare and I was only able to a few Teal startups in the entire San Francisco Bay Area, all in one incubator. I applied and was lucky enough to join one. There are many variations of Teal with holacracy being a common place to start so we started with "Blinkracy" fromm Blinkist. Unfortunately the startup itself didn't get traction so I was only there about a year but it was an amazing and freeing experience to try out a version of Teal. But virtually all startups and small companies are flat and nearly Teal by default so I never made it to the hard part of scaling.

Many other companies have attempted this journey and many have failed and reverted back, either away from Holacracy or adapted it to some version specific to their company, including Blinkist. One interpretation of this is that Teal and Holacracy just don't work, except for some very rare circumstances. Another is that, similar to what Blinkist said in reflection, you need to just use the ideas as a baseline, put people over process, and find what works for your people and organization - it is unlikely any cookie cutter mold will be a perfect fit. And a bad fit may make things worse rather than better. For me this is expected - I view culture much like finding product-market fit for a startup - you iterate on many ideas and keep trying things until you find something that works. Just as there are general strategies for building a new product or service, there are books and ideas ranging from Teal to Holacracy to more traditional management systems and organizational structures. You pick the ones that resonate with you and then adapt those best practices to fit your specific needs. Where you start ultimately comes down to what you believe. Just as you choose an industry or market to take a job in or start a company in because you are passionate about that area, you pick a culture and organizational structure that you are passionate about. Dan Pink's Drive focused on autonomy, mastery and purpose as three key concepts that motivate people at work. Frederic Laloux speaks of self-management (similar to autonomy), wholeness and evoluntionary purpose. Most recently I've been following The Revolt Movement, which has collected and continues to share stories of pioneering organizations around the world and their successes and failures.

There are many reasons Teal resonates with me, but the core for me was a section of the book that posed a thought experiment - if we looked at traditional top down hierarchical organizations and their rules and processes and then based on that derived what we believed about people, what would those beliefs be? And what if we flipped that and instead started with what we believed about people and formed a structure based on that? I share the book's beliefs of people: that people are good, can be trusted, want to do a good job and will help each other if given the opportunity. One of my favorite books on human behavior is Switch by Chip and Dan Heath and the anology they use is that our decision process is like a rider (rationale) on an elephant (emotion) walking along a path (the environment). All three pieces are in play at all times. Often we steer the elephant, but if our emotions take over, the elephant will go wherever he wants, whether our logic wants to go there or not. And a narrow path will force us in one direction while an empty plain allows the elephant to wander in many directions. Organizational structure and culture forms the environment that shapes how people act and work. Another anecdote stuck with me illustruting this point: a new lawyer starts at a new company. His past company, like most, has senior lawyers review all documents before they are sent to clients. For his first project he drafts a document for a client and hands it to his boss, who says "Great, I'll send this to the client." The new lawyer is surprised and asks "You aren't even going to read it over and check it?" to which the boss says "Do I need to?" While the new lawyer did a good job, before it is sent to the client she wants to make sure it's top quality. The simple act of trusting and passing complete ownership leads to a higher quality of work. I know I've felt this at work before - if I expect my idea or work to be reviewed and changed by multiple people before it goes to end user, I'll spend less time on it and send it as more of a draft. Why invest more time to perfect it if it may get altered significantly, or even killed completely?

I'm an optimist so perhaps it's obvious Teal and self-management sounds great to me - the core is trusting in people. This could lead to anarchy as it is implicitly a relinquishing of control. But with the right prople, training and mindset, it also has the potential to unlock the potential of people. And given the majority of people are unhappy at work, I think we need to experiment with new things. We spend much of our waking hours at work, so I believe that should be a fulfilling experience. And if the goal of Green Community is to build a movement, we need involvement on a massive scale. You can't control a movement top down even if you wanted to. So this project won't be like a typical company. I have many "radical" ideas and will copy the example of many who have paved the way before me. Teal will be a basis and we will adapt it to suit us, rather than following any one hard set of rules blindly.

Links:

[Blinkracy](https://medium.com/key-lessons-from-books/the-whole-story-of-holacracy-65ec6bc855c3)

[Reinventing Organizations](https://www.reinventingorganizations.com/)

[Dan Pink's Drive](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6XAPnuFjJc)

[Switch by Chip and Dan Heath](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0030DHPGQ/)

[Revolt Movement by Corporate Rebels](https://corporate-rebels.com/)

Thought Exercises:

- How fulfilled and happy do you feel at work? What's one change that would make you happier at work?

- How does the thought of removing managers make you feel? Angry? Excited? Scared? Relieved?

- As a manager how can you give more ownership and trust to your team members? As team member how can you step up and earn more trust from your team and manager?

- Which aspects of Teal do you like? Which aspects do you dislike and think don't work?
