I was inspired to watch the TED Countdown launch and the many people working to address climate change. I signed up for the newsletter and wanted to take action to try to do my part. One of the complaints I have about many inspiring videos, talks and presentations I have is that they motivate me, but then I don't feel I can do much to start to create change. In some ways each individual action adds up so if I live a little bit greener maybe that's all I should be worried about doing. But it is isolating and doesn't feel like I am part of a movement or as exciting as being in a room full of people all making changes at once, together, multiplying the effects. One thing I did like about TED was their website suggested one of the best ways we can contribute is simply by talking about the issues to keep the discussion going. TED provided a means to do so by signing up for TED Circles, which were basically groups of talks with people about topics. So I signed up and in a couple weeks I joined my first one. We watched a TED video and then 11 strangers from around the world talked about what it meant to them. I really enjoyed the discussion and hearing perspectives from people around the world.

It has now been a month since that TED talk and I haven't spoken to any of those people again, nor do I expect that I will. I still enjoyed the conversation, but I still don't feel I have taken much actual action to helping combat climate change and I don't feel I built any relationships or network to more forward either. But I very much believe in the power of discussion and sharing perspectives. For me the piece that was missing was the follow up. How do we have a recurring set of discussions, at higher frequency, where we can hold each other accountable to making positive change? Talking is a great first step, but it is what we actually DO that matters. And just as important, how we feel - do we feel connected to those people, or are they just random one off interactions? I recently spoke to someone on Lunchclub about this and he phrased it as "one night stands for business." I think this is a pretty good summary - you may have some great conversations with some great people, but afterward may be left feeling empty. At least that's how I tend to feel. There's something about deeper, lasting relationships that make a big difference. I think about my friend Jillian who was in town and taking a hike with her recently and how we had similarly wonderful conversation but it felt much different - we text after and know we will talk again soon. Even better is with local friends who I see on a regular monthly or weekly basis. Again, frequency matters, and in person matters. So another way to describe Green Community is TED Circles for neighbors. Groups coming together to have discussions that lead to action, with local people, in person, on a recurring basis. Each week you can check in and share what small change you made that week to improve on a goal of your choosing, whether that be getting 1% more green or working toward a personal goal. You get to hear how others have progressed, share inspiration, and then have discussions, and hopefully, lots of laughs and fun too. That's another thing I've noticed with the shift to virtual communication during COVID - things seems to be more to the point and "all business." I tend to be pretty straightforward so I don't necessarily mind it, but I think lasting relationships are formed through the "water cooler chats" and all the unplanned small moments that happen in a day when you simply put a bunch of people into a shared physical space. When you have a calendar invite for a meeting with a specific purpose, it's easy to get straight to business then move on. No hugs, physical movement, sharing of food or experiences, just focused conversation. These are all subtle limits, but I think they can add up to a fairly pronounced difference in the feeling of connection, or lack thereof.

Finally, I've noticed that in conversations with friends, the frequency we communicate filters what we talk about. For example, if I catch up with a friend once a month or have a phone call with my best friend who lives a thousand miles away every couple months, I'll tend to fill him in on the "highlights" of the past couple months. Day to day smaller things don't feel "newsworthy" to share. Whereas when I used to live with that same friend, when I'd listen to a podcast I thought he may like or read a blog post, both he and it would be top of mind and I'd share it and it would often lead to some great, in depth conversations. This reiterates the power of unplanned interactions. I couldn't possibly know ahead of time I'd receive that blog in my email inbox that day and set aside time to talk about it, but once it happened, I shared it with the people closest to me in time and space. I think this can be even more powerful if we talk with a diverse set of people and get outside our filter bubble. When I first thought about shared meals with neighbors I initially thought about having filters, similar to a dating app, so you could find "good matches" for you. People who shared your common interests or values. And while that can be great, especially after learning about Tinder for Politics who matched on OPPOSITE values and viewpoints, I think it's good to talk to anyone and everyone (within reason). Have a diverse set of people to both agree with you and disagree. You'll naturally gravitate toward and want to spend more time with people who share a lot in common with you and that's fine. But having people you regularly interact with and have discussions with who have DIFFERENT viewpoints and who ordinarily you may choose to actively avoid, actually may be a very good thing. As with most things in life, it is about balance. With that, I'll end with a few TED talks and posts that got me thinking and that I'd look forward to talking about with more people, ideally a local recurring group, perhaps over a shared meal :)

Links:

[Third Pole Melting](https://www.ted.com/talks/tshering_tobgay_an_urgent_call_to_protect_the_world_s_third_pole)

[Greta Act Now](https://www.ted.com/talks/greta_thunberg_the_disarming_case_to_act_right_now_on_climate_change)

[Diet Changes](https://ideas.ted.com/not-ready-to-be-vegan-here-are-5-tweaks-to-make-your-diet-more-earth-friendly/)

[TED Countdown](https://countdown.ted.com/)

[Count Us In](https://www.count-us-in.org/)

Thought Exercises:

- What media have you experienced that were especially inspiring to you? What, if any, action did you take because of it? How long did that action change last on the scale from a couple days to a permanent lifestyle change?

- How often do you have discussions with people about content you've read, seen or heard? Daily? Weekly? Monthly? How many of those people disagree with you or you think are outside your filter bubble?

- How many people do you share "day level" moments with? No one? Spouse or signficant other only? Family? Best friend? Roommates? More?
