One of my favorite Ted Talks was called Tinder for Politics. A German news company tried a bold experiment of matching people with opposite political views, and then set up time for them to talk in person! It was a scary idea as politics can ignite tempers and emotions, but it there was no violence. The talk cited some example stories, such as an anti gay person meeting with someone who was gay that ended with some fairly significant mindset shifts. The experiment was a success so they started partnering with other news organizations to spread across Europe and now have a platform called My Country Talks. This talk resonated deeply with me and made me emotional, even tearing up hearing about how two humans connected and became friends when on paper they were so different. Religion and politics are generally "hard topics" we are told not to talk about, but I agree with this experiment and think we should do the opposite - we should intentionally talk about the hard topics. Find the subjects that bring up strong emotions and dive into them, rather than hiding them away and only discussing them with others who share your view. The Social Dilemma and numerous other bodies of research highlight the filter bubble problem where many people end up echo chambers where a single opinion is magnified such that it becomes easy to think everyone thinks that way and take it as fact. At first I didn't want to watch the documentary; I don't use social media much at all and I've read many books and studies about how social media often makes us more lonely and has many problems such as the filter bubble. I thought I knew it all already and it wouldn't apply to me. There is one question I've always wondered though - to me I couldn't understand how with the power of the Internet, people couldn't just simply "Google it" and get the facts. Then in the documentary I saw how depending on where you live, Google will autocomplete and show you different results - it's not that easy to get the facts even if people try to do their own research. The documentary also made the claim that polarization is growing so intense that it could actually pose a real threat to humanity itself. Up until a couple years ago I had been unwavering in my belief that climate change was the biggest existential threat we faced. Then after discovering Effective Altruism and reading some powerful posts on artificial intelligence that that was the first time I saw another problem that could be bigger and more urgent. And while I hope social media and polarization does not explode into catastrophe, I think we would be foolish to take it lightly and not work to address this growing issue. There are many possible solutions, but I think at the core it starts with simply having conversations.

When I learned about My Country Talks I was eager to sign up myself. One of the first thoughts I had with Donald Trump was elected was that I wanted to talk to people who had voted for him and understand why. I generally don't like labels but overall I'm more liberal and know very few people who voted for Trump so I couldn't understand. The first step is to listen and learn. Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs has long been a driving model for me - I believe people are good and that if they steal or harm others, most of the time it stems from unhappiness or desperation. I think this applies more generally too - people vote for someone because they believe that person will help improve their lives. So when two different people vote two different ways, they either disagree on the facts or want different things because they are in different situations. I was overjoyed this past week when All Sides partnered with MyCountryTalks and I was able to sign up to talk to someone with a different political viewpoint than mine. Unfortunately my match did not confirm so I was not able to have the conversation but I hope I get another opportunity soon. Talking to a stranger with a (radically) different viewpoint can be enlightening and maybe even life changing. But lasting behavior change takes time and recurring effort. And the people who sign up for these talks likely have some level of openness and desire for critical thinking and to challenge their own viewpoints. If we want to make meaningful change in the world, we need far more people to talk, especially those who wouldn't sign up for something like this in the first place. So I believe high frequency (weekly talks, not just once or a couple times year) and personal connections (talking to friends or people we know rather than strangers) are two key factors. While I did not get to have my talk this week, I did join the group kick off call and the statement "heart first, head second" stuck with me. The organizers made the point that we must first connect with the other person, only then will logical discussion and perspective change be possible. This makes sense. If a friend I trust tells me something I may not want to hear, I'm much more likely to stop, think and possibly change my behavior than if someone random says it to me.

A big part of Green Community and shared meals is simply providing a regular time to talk with people, face to face. At first I thought it would be important to match people together who had similar values and interests to give them something to talk about and bond over. But after reflecting and thinking about the above, where people are connected because they are opposites, I thought maybe this filtering is a part of the problem. Meetup and plenty of other online services provide ways to connect with people who have similar interests and hobbies. I still think that is very valauble, but what I think we are missing is a way to connect with people who are different. Or even better, just connect with people, whether they are different or similar or somewhere in between. The more diverse and varied conversations we can have, the more perspectives we can gain. So shared meals with neighbors connects anyone to anyone else, based on only criteria: they are physically close so they can talk in person. Of course people who live in the same location or apartment or community obviously will have some similarities there will always be some level of filter bubble present. But the point is that we will intentionally NOT filter for similar interests, at least for the shared meals. And we may even filter for differences, following the example of My Country Talks. If I had to summarize the 3 keys goals of Green Community, they would be to green the world, address loneliness, and expand perspectives through conversation. This third piece of having conversations on topics we often avoid, with people who have backgrounds and perspectives we may not normally associate with, I think holds a lot of value and is a key step toward addressing the rising polarization problem. The idea of community is to connect with others and work together toward a common good. With friends and family we generally are happy when they succeed and are happy and we act to help them and build them up. I think we can extend our circle of friends and bring that attitude toward more people in our lives, and if we did, we'd be happier indvidually, and the world would be a better place.

Links:

[Tinder for Politics](https://www.ted.com/talks/jochen_wegner_what_happened_when_we_paired_up_thousands_of_strangers_to_talk_politics)

[My Country Talks](https://www.mycountrytalks.org/)

[The Social Dilemma](https://www.netflix.com/title/81254224)

Thought Exercises:

- What is a topic or belief you have that you don't often talk about with others or brings up strong emotions?

- What is a belief someone else has that you can't understand or that makes you angry that they hold that opinion? If you were to put yourself in their shoes, what are some possible reasons they may hold this opinion?

- Have you ever had a tough conversation about a sensitive topic with someone, either a friend or someone who held the opposing view? Was it a positive or negative experience? Did you learn anything, about yourself or a their perspective?

- If you were meeting with a stranger today to discuss one topic you two disagree on, what would be a topic you would be willing to discuss? Try to pick something that is challenging and would make you slightly uncomfortable, but that wouldn't get you so emotional you may lash out.
