Unit sustainability and bottom up has long appealed to me. Largely for three reasons. First is because as individuals we can only change ourselves, not others, so this is within out control. Second because the hardest part is often starting, so if you start with something small and simple it's easier to get started and to find a potential solution. Finally because while sometimes the total can be greater than the sum of its parts, if the smallest units are unsustainable and you try to scale, it just gets worse and worse. And I think about sustainability across many different categories. From a startup or business perspective, "unit economics" mean if you can be profitable early on, then as you scale your profits increase, rather than trying to get millions of users who are not paying and then monetize later. Sometimes that works, but you are bleeding out cash with each new user if they are net negative. From a behavior change perspective, habits can be very powerful so if you can focus on having a happy and healthy day each day, you can be "sustainably happy." Environmentally if we can reduce or even be carbon neutral as individuals that can make a large impact so I can try to do the best I can to lower my footprint. Then I can try to make my entire home more green, then continue increasing the sphere wider. And on the flip side, while we can get economies of scale and totals effects that are better than the sum of their parts, fundamentally we're limited to be the best any individual unit is. As an example, in one of my environental classes in college I learned about hybrid cars and that it is important to look at the full lifecycle cost. Once the car is built, it is more efficient and uses less gasoline. But where does it get the electricity from? If from coal or other dirty sources, it may still be the same or even worse per mile than a standard gas car. Even if you get the electricity from all renewable sources though, you still have the cost of making the car in the first place, and disposing of it when you are done with it. Now as artificial intelligence grows, as a technologist I think about robotic farming and increasing efficiency. And while that's a great improvement, it will always cost raw materials to build the robot, so I'd wonder if that is actually better than just gardening myself, which requires no extra raw materials (not to mention the side benefits of being active and responsibile and aware of our own food). 50% better efficiency still will always be more expensive than zero. No matter how good our technology gets, no car will ever be better than walking or bicycling.

I like to focus on root causes and I'm an idealist, so this line of thinking, along with my desire to build in person community, kept bringing me back to the idea and importance of hyper local. As part of of the TED Countdown launch I loved the idea of a 15 minute city where you can walk or bike to everything within 15 minutes. As much as I want to build awesome new AI technology to help us, and we probably will need a combination of many solutions to address climate change, I think it's important to be aware of the huge difference between zero and one. What does the ideal solution look like? Can we get to zero? Countries have been making pledges recently to be carbon neutral by 2050 or 2060 and that is fantastic. But what does "carbon neutral" mean? It doesn't mean we will stop consuming energy, it just means that the NET emissions are zero - that we "sequester" as much carbon as we produce. That's still a huge step forward and theoretically if we can permanently stay in balance, then we will indeed be at a sustainable place with the Earth. But entropy is always increasing and it is likely that it will be easier at first to carbon sink and things will change over time. So while we work toward countering our emissions, I also think it's important to stay aware of the total we are emitting. Emitting and sequestering one gigaton is carbon neutral, just as emitting and sequestering 10 gigatons, but in one case we are emitting 10 times more carbon. It reminds me of the slogan "reduce, reuse, recycle". We need all three, but arguably the most important one is reducing how much we use in the first place. Timing and location play a big role too. If we pollute in one area and harm a local habitat, but then plant a forest or sequester carbon in the ocean somewhere else, we still can be technically carbon neutral for the year, but we still have destroyed a piece of the Earth. Living in California with the fires and smoke, I think about air quality - I care much more about how much smoke is in the air and how many days have bad air quality than what our "net" is for the year. Climate change and carbon emissions is a broad way to talk about caring for the planet. It is a great step and a good goal, but the nuances and how we get there matters.

Sustainability also refers to individuals being able to support themselves and to be able to live a happy life. Cohousing has long been an interest of mine and I've thought about ways I could live with or near my friends but usually work and making money is the piece that makes it very difficult. People tend to move to live near where they work. How long you spend commuting each day matters a lot and we need money to survive so it dictates much of our choices in life. As more jobs go remote that is shifting a bit, but there still are many jobs that require a centralized lab or specific location, so you have no choice but to live there. For a typical nuclear family, if both spouses work, now you already need to find a place to live that is close enough to both people's jobs. That's hard enough, and it just gets exponentially harder if you want to add in more people you'd like to live near. The only two solutions I've thought of for this are to make more jobs either remote or hyper local, or to focus on making friends with the people you live with, rather than trying to bring your existing friends together. Whenever I've thought about joining a Kibbutz or trying to start a new community, the first roadblock is how do the people afford to move there and make a living? One solution is based on the village model from generations past, before we had a globalized economy and store chains. You had the village carpenter or handyman you went to for fixing things, farmers for food, a school teacher for all the kids in the village. You don't have choice to get the "best doctor in the world" as you are limited just to you local doctor, but no one has to commute to work further than walking distance and there is a personal relationship between "customer" and "consumer" rather than anonymous buying online or in a store. I'm not proposing we revert back to this; globalization and technology have huge benefits and have made things possible that wouldn't have been otherwise. But I do think we can find a better balance and take the best of both. And the "buy local" message and mindset is already spreading, which is great - buy local when you can and if you really need something you can't get local you can buy from other state or country.

I think we can do more though. I think of the "wholeness" principle of Teal organizations - that people are hired as a person, rather than into a specific title. In holacracy people can take roles in one or more circles and these circles can change over time. This is more aligned with reality of how humans are. In traditional roles this other skillsets are often referred to as soft skills, but we still are usually limited by our title, label and department. For example I am a software engineer, so as my most "marketable" skill, I will be able to earn the most money if I am hired as a software engineer who writes code. And that is certainly a part of who I am. But like all people, I have many other skills and passions as well. These "side hobbies" are typically things we do "for fun" outside of our work, either as a second means of income or just as something we enjoy and are not paid for. That can work just fine, and the rise of the "gig economy" has made it easier for people to be their own bosses and make a living off their skills. Personal fitness is one passion of mine and I've thought about becoming a personal trainer, either as a full time job or on the side. It is not easy to just do something for an hour or two a week though, especially something that requires continually finding new customers. I worked as a freelance web developer for 5 years and while there were great benefits, it is a constant challenge to find new work, and now that I haven't freelanced for awhile, it's not easy for me to just turn it back on and start doing it again without investing time to build up more contacts. But if there were an easy way for me to teach people to code or help them get into better shape, I would happily do it, either for money or just to give back and help others. One of the most rewarding experiences I had in high school was coaching youth soccer and tutoring math to middle school students as two volunteering activities I did. I would be happy to do it again and I often wonder how many people live near me, or even within my apartment complex, who I could help, both to help someone else live a better life and because selfishly it feels good to volunteer and help someone else. I think this is a universal human trait and I don't think it's a surprise that volunteering and giving back is one of the core three pieces of being happy in the Happy documentary. And on the gig economy side of things, yoga teachers, personal trainers and many more use their skills as their primary source of income. What if we could connect people locally so those people didn't have to commute in a car to earn their living, similar to the village model? What if anyone had the opportunity to spend an hour or two a week skill sharing with a neighbor, either to make some extra income or just to help for free?

At the core of Green Community is sustainability, in all forms. The question for us to answer is how can we create a local community of people who can both sustain themselves and live in a way that is sustainable for the environment? For the environmental side that is either carbon neutral, or even better, reducing use, such as with the 15 minute city where we walk and bicycle for most of our transportation and have a heavy bias toward local food, goods and services. As such, the core "product" for Green Community will start as a skill share platform that provides everyone with an opportunity to both learn from and teach to locals. We all have top skills we are near experts in (and many of us are paid to do this as our full time job) but we also have a lot of secondary skills we can offer. I'm not a certified personal trainer or nutritionist and as such I wouldn't expect an expert level of pay nor am I the right fit for an elite athlete. But I certainly could help someone who is newer with the basics and as a source of accountability. And even though I am an "expert" web developer, I'd be happy to teach locals for free or much cheaper than a professional hourly rate. On the flip side, there are numerous skills I'd love to learn, from woodworking to playing guitar, and I don't need or necessarily want to commute to, commit to, or pay for an intensive class, but I'd love to practice once or twice a week and pay $5 to $20 and learn from someone who is bit ahead of them on their journey - maybe they've been playing for a year and were in my shoes a year ago and now can share what they learned so I can learn faster and better. Let's enable people to learn, teach and make a living together, locally. This leads into the slogan for Green Community: "Grow, Give and Laugh with Locals."


Links:

[15 minute city by Carlos Moreno](https://www.ted.com/talks/carlos_moreno_the_15_minute_city)

[Teal Wholeness](https://www.enliveningedge.org/views/wholeness-mean-context-teal-organising/)

[Happy documentary](https://www.thehappymovie.com/)

Thought Exercises:

- What is your carbon footprint and how "unit sustainable" do you live? What is one way you could live a bit greener?

- When was one time you volunteered or taught someone and felt especially fulfilled by that experience? How did it make you feel? Do you still volunteer and skillshare now? Why or why not?

- What secondary skills do you have that you would enjoy teaching others, either for some money or for free?

- What is a skill, hobby or goal you would like to learn or improve at?
