Aaron Hirsh asked many great questions around structure, the balance of focusing on one project versus being a platform for many, how to know what the right problems (and solutions) are, do we need to build anything at all? Earlier that day he shared a report on how carbon credits in Africa had generated tens of millions of dollars yet the impact may have been negative. For me this reinforces 2 conclusions: 1. We need to work WITH nature, for nature's sake (not for money), 2. These are difficult problems and it will require rigor and many people, with aligned (non capitalistic) incentives to both start, implement and maintain any climate work.

Aaron also shared the idea of focusing on ONE problem is alluring (because any individual idea is so difficult to implement well) and I resonated. For over a decade my passion has been green cities and I shared that if I could join a (funded) company and work full time on this I'd do it. But I have not found any such company. This led me to rethink the focus of what we are trying to do. Earlier that day Bernat shared feedback that it still is not clear what we are doing and Lora has reiterated the same. If I were to list out the challenges I would like to solve, top ones I feel and many I have spoken to share are:
- 1. Many mission driven people want to work on climate, but do not know how.
- 2. Volunteering and side projects are great, but do not dedicate enough time to meet the urgency of the climate crisis; we need more people working on these problems with more of their time.
- 3. Timing - while there are a growing number of climate jobs (which is great!), many people do not have financial flexibility to wait for the right fit, so end up taking the first offer, because they must feed their family. If we want to do better, we must make better matches, and that means giving people time to find a really strong fit. Weak fits simply are not going to meet the world's needs.
- 4. Skills and incentive matching - Jobs tyically follow money and a "business model" so certain skills are prioritized above others, whether or not they are what is needed for the planet. The example I have felt since high school is teachers and educating women has been cited as a top climate priority yet teachers typically receive very low pay. Since high school I have said "I will work in industry first to make money, then when I have enough, I will switch to teaching." What if we could change that narrative and help people thrive in their zone of genius, where their skills match their passion, and they can sustain themselves (financially) to do so?

Getting more specific, Aaron's comments led me to think: what are the "ingredients" of successful climate work?
- 1. The right project (problem and solution)
- 2. The right team to implement the solution
- 3. Funding - the team must be able to work on this at least half time (ideally full time), meaning their basic needs must be met.
- 4. Rapid and regular feedback - advisors and a collective body to continually monitor and evaluate the solution and adapt. Conventional startup wisdom is to rapidly iterate and pivot until finding "product market fit." Feedback is also required to keep the team high functioning (a strong culture).

I think the core is around creating a movement. A belief that the "old story" that we are in will not get us to where we need to go. Specifically that people do not feel empowered to take action on climate and that as long as money is the top motivator, we are likely to move toward solutions that will not work well. In all past attempts I have made to address any of these issues, I have thought in terms of capitalism and "how to make money." Unless we are independently wealthy, this is a question we MUST ask ourselves if we want to embark on work we are passionate about. But I believe it is often a trap. One I have fallen into many times, and even now am falling into again. The idea we came up with this weekend was to focus on organizations and big donors to start, because a movement and following takes time to create and we need to bring in more money up front to enable us to work on this long enough to survive before giving up and applying to jobs. Again it is about the money, and every discussion we have comes back to that. We need to start somewhere and to change the system we may need to play within it first (find a sustainable way to have enough money that we can work on this full time, and provide anyone else who wants to the opportunity to do so too). However, if we are dependent on money, it leads us into the same trap Aaron and the article he shared points out - we can get into a sunk cost fallacy and keep moving something forward even when it should be abandoned or changed. We must meet our basic needs first and if there is threat they will not be met (because we do not have enough money), we will start to lie to ourselves and others (consciously or subconsciously) or get into an "ends justifies the means" situation.

So here is the challenge I am giving myself: focus on the core principles and set up a system such that, in Bernat's words, "it is undeniable, to anyone, that this is about the mission (not the money)." And then let's fund that system, sustainably, so we can take back our power and keep the mission at the top, until such a time we can reduce our dependence on money. I am sure this is not a new idea. Extinction Rebellion, Fridays For Future and so many other (climate) movements already exist. Effective Altruism details 3 keys ways (donating money, political advocacy, being a multiplier to others) as ways we can all make a difference and also describes how our 80,000 hours of our career is the way we likely will make the biggest impact. That career piece is the core challenge I feel most stuck by and I believe many others also want to have a career in climate but do not know how. I believe humility (growth mindset, feedback) is a critical piece - ensuring we have the right project(s), solution(s) and people, whether that includes me and our team, or not. There are many ways to work on climate, both as a career and otherwise and it is about matching each person's passion and skillset to how they can contribute to our planet. The goal is to give more people more opportunity to contribute more of their time and money to this cause and match each person's zone of genius to the problem and solution they can best serve so more of us can get more involved.

As such I will start with the ideas I am most passionate about and we can ask as many people as we can to share their truths and passions and see if we can create teams and raise money to work on these problems together. We will iterate on hypotheses of how to best build a platform and movement to empower the most people in the most meaningful ways and focus on the intersection of thriving personally and doing what we as a community feel will make the most positive impact on the planet. Functionally the way I see that manifesting is we pledge our money and time to the cause and prioritize building a Core Team to steward the platform forward and support the many projects. The combination of the Core Team, community and funders will decide which people are best served to be on the Core Team and which projects to focus on. It will start small and most of us will do what we can starting as volunteering time but the hope is that we can bring more and more of us into the movement to be able to move fully into a career on climate. We can start with a daily blog and daily question and can crowd source these to focus on how to best build this movement.

Links:

[Making a Difference](https://80000hours.org/career-guide/making-a-difference/)

Thought exercise:

What would it take for you to be "all in" on climate work? Specifically, what is your zone of genius (core skillset) and what project would you be most passionate about working on and think we need in our world? And what would be the minimum money required for you to work on it full time for 6 months?
